 
 
 
  
 PRASANJIT MAITY  
Targeting a senior -level position in Data Analysis and Data S cience,  leveraging extensive 
experience in managing teams and driving revenue impact. Looking for a role that enables 
strategic planning, stakeholder management, and ongoing involvement in data analysis and 
visualization.   
+91 9004 369 549   
pa.maity@outlook.com   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  PROFILE SUMMARY  
 
 PGP -BABI in Business Analytics and Business Intelligence Certified 
professional  nearly 17 years  of experience in data analysis and data science,  
focusing on predictive analytics, visualization, and strategic planning across 
diverse industries.  
 Currently, l eading analytics and strategy as a Senior Manager at Kotak 
Securities,  Mumbai, driving initiatives in recommendation systems, activation 
prediction models, and next -best -action engines.  
 Skilled  in leading and managing cross -functional teams, with a strong focus on 
strategic planning, stakeholder management, and driving reve nue impact 
through data -driven decision -making.  
 Influencing the strategic direction  of the company by identifying opportunities 
in large, rich data sets and creating and implementing data -driven strategies that 
fuel growth including revenue and profits.  
 Designing and implementing statistical/predictive models  and cutting edge 
algorithms utilizing diverse sources of data to predict demand, risk and price 
elasticity; analyzing large simulation datasets . 
 Devising strategies for existing processes and work -flow s to develop newer and 
advanced work -flows to attain business goals both internal as well external; 
creating and implementing annual Quality and Process Excellence.  
 
 EDUCATION  
 
- PGP -BABI in Business Analytics and Business Intelligence from Great Lakes 
Institute of Management, Pune, 2017  
- PGDM in Banking, Insurance & Investment from Welingkar’s Institute, 
Mumbai, Sep 2014  
- B.Com. from Mumbai University, Mar 2007  
 CAREER TIMELINE  (Latest 4)  
 
 
  CORE COMPETENCIES  
 
       
 
 TECHNICAL SKILLS  
Tools:  Python, PowerBI, MySQL, Excel , CleverTap, 
AWS, Tableau  
ML Techniques:  Cluster Analysis (K -Means / K -
Prototypes), Predictive Modeling, Churn Analysis, 
A/B Testing Analysis, Data Mining, Data 
Visualization, Marketing & CRM Analytics, Product 
Analytics, Break -Even Analysis, Text Analysis, 
Recommenda tion Systems  
 
 WORK EXPERIENCE  
Senior Manager – Analytics & Strategy | Kotak Securities, Mumbai | May 2022 – Present  
Responsibilities:  
 Designing and implementing a recommendation system using Collaborative Filtering; analyzing client purchase history to recommend 
stocks similar to previous transactions & utilizing client behavior and profiles to suggest stocks based on similarities with  other clients.  
 Developing and maintaining an Activation Prediction model; identifying the best set of newly acquired clients with the highest 
probability of activating within T+1 days of account opening & collaborating with the dealer to facilitate the activation pro cess for 
identified clients.  
 Creating and maintaining a Next -Best -Action engine for personalized marketing  communication; optimizing over 100 marketing 
messages daily based on client -level preferences such as preferred channel, time of day, and product preference.  
 Developing and curating propensity models for diverse financial products, including Mutual Funds,  ETFs, Stock SIP, and Margin Trading.  
 Utilize predictive analytics to forecast client tendencies towards specific products.  
Project Management  & Team Building   
 Data Visualization  App Analytics  A/B Testing  of Marketing Campaigns  
 Text Analysis to Detect  Escalation  Cross -selling using Propensity Model  
 Fraud Analytics  
 Customer Segmen tation using ML Client/ Stakeholder Management  
Jun’12 – Sep’18 Oct’18 – Apr’22 Aug’07 – May’12 
May’22  – Present  Colliers Inter., 
Mumbai & 
Bangalore  HDFC Securities, 
Mumbai  Cheers 
Interactive, 
Navi Mumbai  Kotak 
Securities, 
Mumbai   Acting as a Single Point of Contact (SPOC) for the marketing and product team s; regularly publishing and reviewing the performance o f 
various marketing campaigns  and app feature introduction . 
 Conducting in -depth data analysis to derive actionable insights; generating reports and visualizations to communicate findings 
effectively & collaborating with cross -functional teams to ensure dat a-driven decision -making.  
 
Achievement s: 
 Implemented a stock recommendation system using collaborative filtering, resulting in enhanced client engagement and stock trading.  
CTR ratio of communications where stock recommendations were used  improved from 7% to 13%.  
 Orchestrated the implementation of data -driven strategies, resulting in 90% digital penetration, from 75%, and increased retention of 
top 25% clients from 50% to 60% . 
 Cross -selling recommendations have increased product -per-customer from 1.08 to 1. 76. 
 
HDFC Securities, Mumbai | Data Analyst – Digital Strategy | Oct 2018 – Apr 2022  
 
Responsibilities:  
 Evaluated customer trading behavior to identify opportunities for migrating them from offline to online platforms; developed initiatives 
and recommendations to encourage and facilitate the transition.  
 Analyzed response data from marketing campaigns to assess their effectiveness; evaluated the performance of different channel s and 
recommended optimizations for future campaigns.  
 Formulated and up dated product propensity models for cross -selling initiatives; predicted customers who were at risk of going dormant 
and tailored strategies to retain their engagement.  
 Led and supervised a team of executives responsible for maintaining Management Informat ion System (MIS) related to Activation, 
Digital Penetration, and Marketing efficiency.  
 Overseen the creation and maintenance of reports using the company's in -built Business Intelligence (BI) tool.  
 Provided data -driven insights to support strategic decisio n-making related to customer engagement, marketing strategies, and product 
cross -selling.  
 
Colliers International, Mumbai & Bangalore | Manager – Business Intelligence | Jun 2012 – Sep 2018  
 
Responsibilities:  
 Analyzed CRM and transactional data of Colliers  India to identify additional business opportunities with existing clients; utilized data 
insights to support strategic decision -making and enhance client engagement.  
 Collaborated with all Service Lines of the company to generate and report market insights  published in monthly Research reports.  
 Provided comprehensive and data -driven analyses to contribute to the company's thought leadership in the real estate sector.  
 Kept track of price trends in the commercial and residential real estate market; provided t imely and accurate information on pricing 
dynamics to support pricing strategies and market positioning.  
 Monitored market deals and analyzed lost opportunities in the real estate sector; provided insights and recommendations to mi tigate 
potential losses an d improve deal conversion rates.  
 Supervised the team in compiling and maintaining a real estate portfolio database of corporate clients through primary and se condary 
research.  
 Ensured the accuracy, completeness, and relevance of the database to support bus iness development activities.  
 Directed and supported the BI team to successfully achieve their performance targets.  
 
Team Leader - Knowledge Management | Cheers Interactive, Navi Mumbai | Aug 2007 – May  2012  
Responsibilities:  
 Conducted various pilot projec ts for the company, providing direct reports to the Business Development team.  
 Reviewed the recruitment, training, and management of team members for projects, and ultimately transferred the team after th e 
project is converted into an account.  
 Commenced as  a data researcher, advancing to the role of quality analyst for the team.  
 
 
 PERSONAL DETAILS  
 
Date of Birth:  26th April 1986  
Languages Known: English, Hindi, Marathi, Bengali  
Address : Cosmos Orchid  CHS, Kasarvadavali, Thane (West) – 400615  
 